all right is this guy on we good okay well i hope
y'all are ready for some cheerleading here because we got
a lot to do here ah so first of all it is
so great to be back here for the atmosphere conference 2026
thank you to boris to ted to all the volunteers for
such a great conference yes give it them give them some applause
all right well what a year it has been so just
one year ago i was giving this talk where did we come
from where will we go and well it was a pretty crazy
year in between uh in a little bit i'm going to
step through my roadmap that i gave in that talk and see
how we did which should be interesting but last year was hypothetical
i was looking into the past i was looking into the future
and this year i'm going to talk about the present because
2026 is the atmosphere y'all the atmosphere atmosphere atmosphere get
your puns right so there are so many incredible things happening
in the ecosystem from black sky launching a fully independent app view
that's right we got tangled raising a series a that is
incredibly exciting yeah and then i have this one because i love
it standard site a collaboration between three different projects bringing blogging
and web content into the atmosphere all right so there are a
lot more shout outs coming but uh let's start with this
last year after the conference we were talking to boris and
we were talking about what we were hoping to see for the
next year's conference uh and i said you know what would
be cool is if we could 2x the number of attendees
from last year and last year was about 170 so let's
see how we did hey yeah this community is growing and
it's growing because it is a welcoming community is a smart
and kind community i love being a part of it and i
want to thank each and every one of you for making this
such a wonderful place to be thank you so much okay so
let's look at some more numbers it's hard to get
exact numbers in an open network but we have good prox
ies for how things are going and so like one of them
we like to look at is the at proto api s
dk and the downloads keep going up this is the weekly
downloads steadily rising then we have another interesting metric with the blue
sky pds is whenever we see people log in we actually
get a sense of how many other non-blue sky applications are
out there and we see about a thousand weekly active applications other
than blue sky these are applications that have somebody logging in at
least once a week right there's a thousand of them out
there when i search for at proto on github i
find about 5600 different repositories and you know what's
funny is that this number probably isn't complete either either because
we don't run all of the pds's in fact
we've been seeing great adoption of new pds services from
black sky euro sky in pmx and a lot of others
including the self-hosting now this is showing weekly users posting
from non-blue sky pds's that's over 10 000
people every week but then i heard rudy say that they
have 30 000 accounts so clearly independent pds's are on
the move so that is great to see so what is the
excitement all about why are we here well we are here i
believe for two good reasons one is that we believe in user
freedom and building good software we are hackers idealists creators and
professionals and good software and user freedom is what we do now
more to the point the atmosphere is a new network built on
the at protocol and it does a lot of things but the
core of the atmosphere i think is the account having one account
that you can reuse and stop creating new accounts all over the
place stop having to enter thousands of passwords into that's maybe
exaggerating a bit but a lot of passwords that everybody forget
s across the internet you have one atmosphere account that you share
across your applications and when i mean shared i mean truly shared
this is your account that you are taking to the applications or
maybe better to say that the applications are coming to you because
this is your data and you choose to share your data with
it so when i log into blue sky a fully independent application
pause for applause my entire social network is there when i log
in i tried it out recently and i was like oh look
at that there it all is i feel right at home there
is no lock-in in the atmosphere if your account is hosted
by blue sky you can migrate to a new account host and
lose nothing tech companies don't get to own your atmosphere account
you do in fact if you want to self-host you can
technically the username isn't about that but you get the idea
the atmosphere is also crazy programmable okay not quite that easy
but it is very very easy to work with now we have
been talking a lot about phrases that we like to describe what
this is all about and anuj has been saying something for
a while that we've decided we like actually pretty well people
not platforms that's a shout out officially because we're going
to steal that a lot coming forward yeah uh actually technically the
atmosphere as a term was invented by one of our members of
our community so um yeah no software for people not software for
platforms not software for companies but for people now okay you if
you are new to the at protocol you might be asking well
what can i do with it this all sounds really nice well
that is a perfect opportunity for me to showcase some of what
this amazing community has been doing so let's get into it
and this is going to take a second i'm going to
basically have three different categories of projects that we've been seeing
out there connected applications are just atmospheric applications atmospheric websites that's
websites that are using the protocol to enhance what you could do
on the web and then infrastructure this is tools and services and
things like that so i will kick off with a crowd favorite
here leaflet is an atmospheric blogging application comments from blue
sky integrate directly into leaflet as if it's one network
which is funny because it is okay i'm going to skip
a little forward here for a funny reason so you got three
different applications on the atmosphere blue sky which does short posts leaf
let which does blog posts and stream place which does video streams
i decided to hit those three really fast because this crazy project
happened aether operating system it's a web-based operating system
that is a lot of fun uh it has access to the
full firehose of data on the atmosphere so it was
able to replicate all three of those applications inside of it as
a part of that experience okay next up all right i swear
rudy it's the last time but here we go black
sky black sky completely independent fork and re-implementation of
blue sky it has its own moderation it has its own algorithms
and its own ui now something that's really important about
this is that our communities interact every day without even really being
aware of the difference between the two they know that they're
using black sky or blue sky but we're all a part
of one network together all right i briefly mentioned it stream place
live streaming service that works really well that's how a lot
of people are seeing me right now we've been using it
a lot just because it works which is you know something and
uh one fun detail about it is that when you go live
you publish a live now indicator which now shows up right inside
a blue sky and that has been great because eli has been
streaming about news that's been happening in the ecosystem i keep
catching it because he's going live i see him on the
uh on the profile and i go and catch the thing while
it's still happening all right next up we have tangled yeah
so tangled is a github replacement that puts the commits
and git and the issues on app proto next up we have
germ an end-to-end encrypted messenger that uses the new m
ls encryption standard and it uses app protocol identities and you can
start your conversations with the press of a button from a blue
sky profile y'all are bringing the energy
i love this what's that who
o please save the questions for after the talk okay next up
we have graze surf and skyfeeds three incredible feed
building tools that integrate directly into blue sky and really any application
that wants to take advantage of generated feeds and that's it
for the connected applications let's now turn our attention to the
atmospheric websites such as npm x anybody
notice that all over your timeline really cool community project i don
't know how y'all are doing what you're doing it
's a browser for the npm for npm it has
login and likes via app proto so it's a little sprink
led in there in fact if you like app proto logins
in a classic dogfooding move boris put together the
community discourse and it uses app proto for login so we always
know exactly who we're talking to we're not having to
figure out who's that got our usernames right there
next like i mentioned before we've got standard site this is
a lexicon created by leaflet pocket and off print
you enable a common language for publishing articles on the app protocol
now why does that matter well let me use a personal favorite
here the app proto website it publishes its blog posts both
on the web and on the app protocol using the standard site
lexicon it also happens to have blue sky comets
uh integrated direct land and uh so now that we have our
blog posts getting published on the atmosphere you can have sites like
docs.
surf for a windows 95 flavor for reading all of your
posts and if you've been missing dan's posts about the
uh or his uh leaflets about the uh permission spaces you
can find them right there in that windows 95 experience that i
know everybody here is craving is that 95 or is that x
p that's xp oh guys come on we'll get
through this of course if you're a little more modern you
could use the pocket.
blog reader user experience so connected apps atmospheric websites they're
all pushing on what you can do when you are part of
one network together and maybe you the person new to app proto
don't really like making apps or websites but you like making
infrastructure like giant crazy services and indexes of lots of data
well then maybe you take an interest in figs work and
actually if you're building you probably want to give microcos
m a look too because these are a collection of very very
helpful at protocol services that make development a lot easier there's
constellation which lets you query the network by looking at back which
is a shockingly intuitive way to do it there's space
dust that essentially watches for as far as i can tell this
may not be a great but new links between users like follows
or likes and streams them to you i think it can be
used to make like notifications essentially or activity streams there's sl
ingshot which is a giant cache of userids and i
think also records and now there is hubble a full network
mirror so that is microcosm and there's also a
lot more that fig has been doing so definitely check that one
out there is also pds ls i'm counting tools
as infrastructure here this is an app proto data explorer that has
become a regular part of development for everybody and i actually i
'm going to just sneak in something that happened between me writing
the talk and now which is taproot which has developed an
insane number of people who are in the future of the future
of the project you've got lexicon garden which aggreg
ates all of the aproposm and there's micro
cosm and there's also a lot more that fig has
been doing so definitely check that one out there is also p
ds ls i'm counting tools as infrastructure here this is
an app proto data explorer that has become a regular part of
development for everybody and i actually i'm going to just sneak
in something that happened between me writing the talk and now which
is taproot which has developed an insane number of tools in
this spirit so definitely check out taproot you've got le
xicon garden which aggregates all of the app protocol schem
as being published across the network i've been using this quite
a bit myself next you got pds mover which is an
account migration tool yeah with genuinely one of my favorite
logos and it's been seeing huge utility for people looking to
switch their hosting infrastructure and speaking of that you got eurosky
which has been making moves with their pds service that's
right i believe both uh eurosky and npmx are
located in the eu and so we've been actually seeing both
pick up uh eurosky also has their own migration tool they
've been working on with the best name ever eu hall it
's good it's good it's good all right and one
more we got bridgy fed like i said has been successfully
bridging activity pub and app proto for over a year now
i think uh three years where does the time go uh yeah
and like i said in the talk previously i have to give
this one a lot of credit because i thought that would never
work okay well are you
inspired yet i am sure that i missed some really great shout
outs here because there is so much happening um and i know
that y'all are probably tired of applauding but let's give
one more round of applause to this community because this is what
happens when good people build good software okay
so i mentioned earlier that last year in my talk i shared
a roadmap for the protocol and now it's time for the
report card so how'd we do did we follow through let
's find out sync 1.
1 yes hot dog we did it so
now the talk gets a little drier sync 1.
1 is spec'd published and deployed this update made relays
much cheaper to run and improved sync reliability in general uh fig
demonstrated a working relay at less than five dollars a month which
is great and there are now over a dozen relays running
okay off scopes and permissions did we get that done yes
apps can now choose exactly which permissions they request from users and
you can use permission sets to condense that down into a
much more readable user experience so you're not seeing a long
list of nsids and wondering what horrible thing you've
gotten yourself into lexicon resolution did we get that done
yes lexicons are now published on protocol this is why
things like lexicon.
garden can aggregate them together to form nice live documentation and
this is ended up being a really fortuitous development in
the protocol which we'll talk more about later next up permission
data oh it's
close we are very excited about this the blue sky team has
been working on our proposal and has been sharing the informal write
ups of that a formal write up will be coming soon there
's also been a number of people in the ecosystem working on
their own proposals which we are going to be bringing together to
make sure that we are getting all the great ideas possible for
this and working with y'all so that we can have a
great permission data solution.
so i'm feeling very good about how this is coming together
i'm also feeling very good about letting daniel take this
so if you have any questions take them to daniel okay
now end to end encrypted messaging we did actually say this one
last time and not exactly we have officially not picked this one
up that said like i said previously germ has picked up the
mantle on this and deployed and encrypted messaging using ad proto for
identities and i'm sure that as permission spaces roll out there
will be some interesting opportunities to look at merging those kinds of
technologies together okay so what else that's not bad but that
's also not all because that's just what i happen to
put on the slides for last year let's see what else
has rolled out plc replication uh this is actually pretty darn
useful not just you know ethos wise but practically speaking the
plc directory now supports replication so you can sync the entire
plc directory into your local infrastructure which is very nice if
you have to do a lot of identity lookups so if
you're if that's you take a look at the pl
c replication there's also a new typescript sdk
at proto lex this makes it a lot easier to install
and work with lexicons that are published on the network
you were previously stuck with whatever we were compiling into our
api now there is a very nice set of tools and
flows to be able to build the sdk that you
need for whatever lexicons you're working with the tap
tool now makes it much easier to backfill and sync data
from the network it kind of works magically handles the cursor for
you and switches from backfill searching out what's already out
there straight into live replication so that you get events as they
occur definitely check out tap if you've been wanting to tap
into the network we put out a refreshed website and completely rework
ed the docs and you know relatedly i have to give
a shout out to our first two dev rels jim
and alex yeah they are here and
they are happy to talk to you so if you haven't
met them yet be sure to say hi there's also one
more nice little bit of news that i am pleased to share
the at protocol ietf working group has officially
been formed i'm just going to give a huge thank you
to the ietf for welcoming us and a huge thank
you to this community for helping to make that happen for showing
up and helping to explain to the ietf why this
is something that is worth investing in the ad protocol is a
long-term vision for the internet the ietf is a
great home for the standards governance so i'm in over the
moon about that okay so what is next well as i said
before permission data is going to be i think probably the banner
update for this year this is the tools for creating records that
are either totally private or gated to a selected group of
people this is going to open up a huge number of use
cases for the app protocol so i cannot wait for this we
are also going to be spending some time working on the account
experience this is login and account management i know that there are
some people in this room who know exactly what i'm talking
about and are excited for this but this will include things like
believe it or not we're going to at least claim two
factor auth will finally make its way in we are also going
to be helping to work with the fed cm standard hopefully making
some progress on that to make logins faster and easier very
excited about that there's also some branding questions about what kind
of login experience we should all be using and we want to
do our best to help answer those questions with everybody all right
what else we'll be doing this year there's going to
be a lot of follow-through about governance in fact if you
are interested in that you should catch daniel's talk which
unless he has changed it is supposed to be about governance that
'll be about the itf and also about did plc
which has some very interesting developments on the way so be sure
to check out that talk if this is something that you are
interested in and then there are just frankly continued improvements quality of
life more tools more sdks more services fixing bugs fixing
docs and making the app protocol a joy to work with so
that is our plan moving forward whoo all right so
this is the moment that you realize that this talk is for
an hour and i didn't bring a guitar but maybe later
i think there was some talk of karaoke later yeah you know
i'm in well we live in some crazy times don't
we slay the spire two came out oh zemp
ic is a thing now oh yeah also ai is a thing
uh that really happened to me yeah
thank god we're finally there you know uh i posted that
picture and somebody naturally asked me uh which program is that and
i suppose you're wondering that now too okay well we are
living in a radically different world than we were even one year
ago and it has raised some big questions what is this future
that we are creating how should we react to this new technology
what role does decentralization have in shaping this world and what
role should we be playing both as individuals and as a community
and as an ecosystem well as you all know jade the
founder of blue sky has recently changed her role to the c
io which is the chief innovation officer and this is why t
ony has joined us as a ceo so that jay
can make questions about the future of app proto questions like this
her main focus so please join me in welcoming jade to
the stage and
i want to start by sharing a quote that i really like
this is by a historian of technology that i keep coming back
to technology is not not good nor bad nor is it neutral
this sounds like a riddle but i think it actually contains
an important insight technology is a force multiplier it multiplies the
impact of whatever you apply it to and the outcomes depend on
how it's used by who and towards what end our mission
is to develop and drive adoption of large-scale techno large-scale
adoption of technologies for open and decentralized public conversation i wrote this
into our founding charter because i believe the internet should be built
to serve the people who use it right now ai is starting
to undermine human agency at the same time as it's enhancing
it the spread of low quality ai generated content is making public
social networks noisier and less trustworthy at a time when
we need accurate information more than ever the signal is getting harder
to find right when we need it most and the major platforms
aren't exactly trying to fix this they're using ai to
increase the time users spend on platform to harvest training data from
you and to shape what users see and believe through systems that
they can't inspect and can't control we think technology should
serve people not platforms so an open protocol the purpose of it
is to put the power to shape your own experience in your
hands you build your own feeds you can create software that works
the way you want it to and you can find signal in
the noise we built the app protocol so anyone could build any
app they imagine on top of it but up until recently anyone
really meant anyone who can code which might be all great for
people in this room but really there's a lot more potential
here agentic coding tools are starting to make this a lot
more accessible for the first time an open protocol can be truly
open to everyone it's increasingly possible to personalize software with
no coding experience at all the atmosphere is an open data layer
with a clearly defined schema for applications which actually makes it uniquely
well suited for coding agents to build on so we started asking
what happens when you can just describe the social experience you want
and have it built for you so in my new role as
cio i've started an exploration team within blue sky to
find out the first thing that we've built is called att
i named after the at protocol atti is an agentic
social app and custom feed builder so it feels more like having
a conversation than configuring software you just describe the kind of
posts you want to see and the agent underneath the hood builds
a feed for you but that's just where we started pa
ul's going to give you a sneak peek today of what
we've been exploring at the frontier of what software on an
open network can look like technology is an accelerant on whatever
you apply it to and i want this to accelerate decentralizing
social and putting power back in users hands but honestly i don
't think the most interesting things built on that proto are going
to come from us they're going to come from everyone out
here who picks up these tools and starts building so we've
just started experimenting but we're sharing what we have with you
now so that you can build alongside us i've watched people
use atti for the first time over the last couple of
weeks and there's a moment where they realize they just described
something and suddenly it exists that moment's what's this all
about i don't have all the answers for what the future
of the open web looks like but i can't think of
a better group of people to be building it with so if
you want to do that literally we're hiring come talk to
me after or visit our jobs page and paul is going
to show you what we've been working on
all right well who's ready for a demo well this
is addy can we see that okay all right it's
pretty good yeah this is the result of the last two months
of some pretty crazy coding one of blue sky's first ideas
on the atmosphere was the custom feed generators now
we added feed generators because one of the most fundamental problems with
social networks is the algorithm how do i control my algorithm and
the general sense that we have here is wouldn't it be
nice if you could just ask and so what we're seeing
here is that the agent is running some tool calls searching the
network based on my query here and it seems to have created
the feed now it is testing the feed to make sure that
it has the right fit and in a second we're going
to see the actual output of this so let's all right
there we go look at that it's kind of recursive
and we have here a feed that is about the atmosphere conference
now it's when a second we'll figure out exactly how
it did this but you can see that it's doing a
pretty good job sometimes it's getting at proto atmosphere conference it
's going by tags probably frequently but in this case it probably
went off the alt text you can also see over on the
side there's a nice little summary of everything that's in
the feed that we're looking at here that's particularly nice
for kind of a breaking news feed to quickly digest what's
in there but this is about talking to it let's talk
a little bit more like some
reposts y'all come on so addy works by
building a kind of a pipeline program and we can actually examine
it it'll probably steal there it goes okay so it's
done i'll clear that session all right there we go ranked
by hotness it works
right on okay so addy built
a kind of a pipeline program to do this it specifies
its sources like keyword searches which is what it's doing here
it's looking for the atmosphere conference hashtag and mentions of the
atmosphere conference so let's see take a look there so yeah
looking for the text so it's actually just kind of running
uh probably elastic search uh initial queries then it goes down the
pipeline you've got a pre-filter which is actually type
script that it's executing on the server then it's going
to do a labeling pass on every one of those things you
're evaluating posts about atmosphere conference and what it's trying to
figure out is is it actually about the conference or not and
it admits these labels is about conference yes or no and then
finally it runs a typescript pass down beneath where it is
filtering out based on the ai labeling it is removing duplicates
from authors and then it is applying that ranking algorithm i asked
it to do it wrote all that code on request this is
a program building agent oh you know what else i could do
which is rather neat is that i can explore each of the
steps in the debugger here so i could see it got
107 initial posts i ran that pre-filter that didn
't filter got the labels onto it and was able to determine
which ones are about the conference or not and then ran the
curator which is pretty helpful whenever it's not doing what it
's supposed to do okay well that's pretty handy why don
't i go ahead and publish that okay there we go and
i'll just refresh here go to my feeds atmosphere
conference 2026 isn't interoperability cool and maybe you
're thinking well of course blue sky can do this they have
privileged access to the network well it would be reasonable to think
that because that's how software has always worked but not here
adi was built using the exact same access that everyone has
to the atmosphere put another way these ideas can be built by
anyone here or not here in this room and we plan to
help share those ideas those techniques we will share what we have
been learning with the with addy now let's do a
little something here i should first kind of say this is what
we will be sharing with everybody after the conference but i have
a little tool here and i'm just going to give myself
some more features hey that's better so i'm going
to show you some of the stuff that isn't quite ready
yet for release but we really wanted to show to you here
because we think it illustrates the future that's ahead of us
i'm going to open up this fake blue sky interface here
it's not fake actually it's pretty real uh but you
know one of the things that has always bugged me about
the blue sky interface i know i probably shouldn't say something
like that but i know the people that are in my following
feed and the handles start to just feel like noise after some
point so why don't we just go ahead and get rid
of those things so let's go with don't show the
handles in the posts what is the core idea behind personal
computing it's a software ought to serve the user and for
years there's been a divide between the coders and the
users now maybe we will never fully erase that divide but in
the past year the laws of physics has changed for software we
can now tell the computer what we want in plain english and
it will do it it will make or modify applications on our
behalf perhaps the big question is will it do it fast enough
for my demo ah perfect timing isn
't that cleaner
when we started we knew we weren't interested
in generating content for people if anything we kind of want the
opposite we want to enhance the atmosphere and not pollute it
so i started pitching a constructor this is a tool that builds
the atmosphere instead of just browsing it and jay said well
that term is terrible why don't we call it a liquid
interface because after all we're liquefying software it
is dynamic it can change and it is the opposite of the
shrink wrap software that we've been using for most of our
lives so we built a liquid interface a live programmable atmospheric
environment now watch what it does it finds the lexicons
you can see here it is searching through the leaflet le
xicons for rich text we made the app protocol self-d
ocumenting the apis and the data models all have live
documentation and the form of lexicons and if you're
not familiar with lexicon it's a lot like j
son schema it describes the apis and the data models as
i said and we made these lexicons to help software
engineers build together in an open environment which is a challenging coordination
challenge but a lucky side effect is that we made something remarkably
similar to mcp which the coding agents can use and
because the atmosphere is an open network the agent is able to
build live software against it now this time i knew that it
was going to take a little bit of time it's read
the documentation it needs to it's cooking on the code i
'm just going to jump to one that i had it built
previously and here is my leaflet rendering
and this is the result of asking still thinking
so addy is an agentic social environment or perhaps more
accurately it's our playground for experimenting with ai on the atmosphere
or perhaps more accurately it's the result of two months of
you know deep ai psychosis as we have been working on
this thing together but i do want to give a shout out
to the team that has been working on this this is j
eremy haley jim colaboro and jay for being
a part of making addy v1 possible for this conference
so this is
online at addy.
ai it is a closed beta and guess what y'all guess
what that means our greatest innovation yet we've brought ai to
invite codes there is still a lot to learn about what it
means to actually deploy ai in the atmosphere or just in general
for personal computing we're learning a lot about the performance we
're learning a lot about the cost learning a lot about correct
ness and security as jay said the atmosphere is here so
that anybody can build we want to make anyone everyone we want
to figure this out with all of you so thank you all
so much for being here thank you for your time i'm
excited about what's coming up this next year and to be
here with you so thank you very very much and
you should get an email with an invite code if you're
at the conference so if you don't get it hit me
up after do you want to take some questions
you want to have people we we've got we've got
five or ten minutes i think we can do that okay let
me let me let me let me run let me run mics
thank you so much uh my question is as uh i'm
worried about the people outside of the conference that maybe not be
very eager to let them their posts being uh uh read by
an ai agent so is there a way for them to uh
to be like you have the settings to turn off people not
logging in blue sky to see your account something like that for
these ai agents would be very much appreciated i think i think
that conversations like that absolutely should happen after this um i think
that uh well you know we have to meet people where they
're comfortable with one of the things that we want to make
sure that people get out of ai is something that actually serves
people and finding out what it means to actually serve people so
far a lot of what we've experienced with ai has felt
more like it's serving slop and i think we've all
had enough shrimp cheeses in our lives and it doesn't
feel great to help that happen so um hopefully i i want
to believe that this thing this kind of direction finding ways for
ai to actually help people will make that less scary as a
premise but i think that what you're describing is something that
we should have that conversation about yeah uh you said you like
described it as like a playground do you see this as like
an experiment or like something you want to commit to in the
future and if it's more of an experiment do you see
yourself open sourcing it we are definitely interested in we haven
't open source this one yet because it's a bit of
a mess and we have some features in there that we're
not quite uh comfortable we don't feel like we're ready
to share with people so um we will absolutely be open sour
cing some software that is derived from this at minimum to make
sure that people are able to kind of pick up on what
we learn through this and we have been learning quite a bit
about what it means to for instance orchestrate the context window
to make sure that it's able to interact with the network
properly things like that um but is this an experiment or is
this like a a product we actually don't know yet we
're kind of interested to hear what people think and um if
it ends up being just a place for us to learn things
and then export so that somebody else can do it better then
that's one pathway and if it ends up actually having utility
for folks we'll stick with it yeah i'm gonna be
selfish and have two questions one sorry if i missed this but
what's the underlying model behind adi and then second um
you know obviously this changes whether you open source it or not
but there are obviously going to be some safety and moderation implications
when you introduce genetic workflows like this so you know how to
find us more of a comment um
yes okay which model um we actually i you know forgot this
was going to be a story beat but we um have a
model selector that you can configure in your own model um
at the moment where it's a mix um and actually one
of the things we've been learning quite a bit about is
when you want to switch between different models for different use cases
which kind of makes configuring it even more of a pain
but uh primarily we're using anthropic in the demo and
a lot of that was sonnet yeah um let's see
oh yeah well um correct but um i'm also very interested
in using um the the potential for using this sort of thing
to build more personal labelers actually so i think this could
end up having great value in that direction yeah Hey,
I'm Stan.
I'm just wanting to ask, I just received the email with
the invitation.
Hey, it worked.
It worked.
Thanks, Jim.
And I just noticed at the end of the email that it
was only available in the United States and in Canada for 18
and more users.
Can you explain why you had to add this restriction?
Because it doesn't seem to manipulate user data.
It's only creating programs.
So I'm kind of wondering why did you have to do
that?
And maybe it can highlight stuff that Victoria talked to before.
Thanks.
If Matt is watching, are you panicking right now about what
I'm about to say?
You should talk to our head of legal, Matt.
Yeah, there.
And I will leave it at that.
He'll be able to give you a much better answer.
So I had a question regarding that demo that you did regarding
the UI.
So is the idea that any user could make potentially any change
to the UI and have that be their experience?
Because one of my concerns is that especially once you start introducing
communities and permission data, I feel like the UI is a very
important part to show different social signals
that might be important.
And having a standardized way of displaying that, that the user might
not be able to easily control, I feel like is an important
part to having like a coherent social experience sometimes, you know?
Sure, sure.
So is the idea just that anyone can change the UI however
they want, essentially?
Or?
Well, there's an interesting immediate question that includes what you're
bringing up, but also how do we live in a consensus reality
of user experience?
And I think that, well, first of all, we're going to
be finding out together in a big way.
But Lexicon is kind of the tool for that, I think.
That we should be using the, if we need to add more
primitives into Lexicon to define this than we should, getting
to a point where we can kind of set mutual expectations across
these software application boundaries.
You know, so that whenever I customize, I don't do something
that suddenly doesn't work on your machine because you use different
schemas and have different expectations.
That's actually a pretty big part of it.
Another interesting thing that will come into play in general is just
how are we choosing which lexicons and which descriptions of
how the software should work to trust?
And so attestation and trust layers for the inputs into
the agents is going to be a really compelling research area throughout
all of this.
Hello.
I have a question, which is, does this tool have a set
of tools on its own that make it easier to interact with
AppRoto lexicons and such?
Or is it just sort of using the lexicons as
like an MCP?
Could you hit me with a question one more time?
Does, it's called Addy, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Does Addy have like a toolkit that is providing like guidance
for how it should be interacting with this sort of content?
Or is it kind of just like, you know, because you can
just ask Claude to build you a feed or whatever and
it will.
Right.
So is it like, does it have a set of tools that
is providing guidance or help to make it sort of on a
better track to have that happen?
Yes.
So first of all, it has its own set of tools that
we custom build.
It actually uses a kind of a generated documentation structure, because we
found that it seems to like the navigational style of trees.
And so there's some of it, which is just fixed and
baked in explaining the environment that it's developing against.
There is a lexicons directory, which is actually doing le
xicon resolution and then generating markdown in the response that
embeds the lexicon and then gives it like usage
examples and things like this.
Now, some of that stuff, we absolutely should be producing as like
Claude Skills or MCP, because the same utility exists generally.
And that's one of the things that we're also quite
keen to get out so that, you know, we put together the
TypeScript SDK recently with better code generation.
Well, these things are incredible code generators.
So making sure that they can get access to the lexic
ons, I think, will actually really help speed up development, just in
all cases.
But there's something quite nice about the live environment, having both
kind of a more constrained target, one that's built for specific
use cases, and which can tell the coding agent things about the
configuration.
What services are available, or what, like, endpoint the user might prefer
for like an app view versus one versus the other.
So we can, I think the live environment has some interesting possible
advantages, in addition to just being a live environment that doesn't,
you know, takes away the pain of deployment and setup and having
to pick your API keys and things like that.
And I think we'll leave it there.
You can mob Paul and the rest of the team later.
Thank you so much for giving us the atmosphere report.
Thank you, everybody.